# A Novel Approach to Optimize Memory Reconstruction Using Joint Multimodal Networks
Reconstructing images from memory is crucial for forensic investigations, but current methods, such as functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) brain scanners, are expensive and invasive. Therefore, previous studies have applied electroencephalographic (EEG) brain signals, which is a relatively noninvasive and cost-efficient tool, to machine learning frameworks like generative adversarial networks (GAN) to decrease blur, distortion, and erroneous features in reconstructed images. However, issues, such as mode collapse, where GANs produce the same sets of images, and inability to distinguish different images, hinder model performance. A conditional variational autoencoder-generative adversarial network (CVAE-GAN) addressed these issues by training the VAE and GAN models together. Thus, the model matched EEG features with the latent space of their images effectively, while producing images based on distinct category inputs. The Inception Score, which is a score that marks how diverse and distinct the generated images are, for the CVAE-GAN was 1.0021 on average with a standard deviation of 0.0001823. The number of floating operations, or flops, for the CVAE-GAN and generator models were 102 Gigaflops and 4.09 Gigaflops respectively. The results show that the CVAE-GAN is feasible for EEG-memory reconstruction from its generation of distinct image colors and features, demonstrating the potential of the model as an optimized alternative to current methods. Due to the major issues of limited time and computational resources, the CVAE-GAN was unable to generate coherent images. Future studies can resolve the mode collapse failure by implementing proper loss functions and avoiding a lack of homogeneity in datasets.

## Description
* [Documentation (Google Drive)](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1YUl0tQ4WxpHvpQn5Cv3MUlfTIv39Z0as?usp=sharing)
  * Includes research paper, notebook, daily goals, journal write-ups, presentation of defense
